Welcome to JW Broadcasting®
for November 2023!
On October 7,
the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
held its annual meeting.
Usually, you would be viewing
this portion of the program
in January 2024.
However, you are now able
to enjoy four talks this month,
November 2023.
These talks have been especially prepared
at the direction of the Governing Body.
They want the worldwide brotherhood
to be aware of the content
as soon as possible.
Please pay close attention
and enjoy the program!
Well, it’s an absolute delight
to be here today, isn’t it?
And you’re going to get happier
as the morning goes along.
The annual meeting
—as an example,
I’m going to pick the year of 2013.
Now, that annual meeting
has been called landmark.
We’ve even stated that;
we called it a landmark annual meeting.
You might think
that all annual meetings are landmark,
and many of us here would agree with that.
But that one was very special.
At that meeting,
the revised edition
of the New World Translation
in English was released
—a very special annual meeting.
And that landmark Bible release
continues to be a blessing
for many people around the earth
as more languages are added.
Now, ten years later,
exactly ten years later,
we have arrived
at another truly landmark annual meeting.
This time, Jehovah has helped
“the faithful and discreet slave”
to discern deeper principles
and understanding
from that very same Word of truth.
And this understanding
is now going to be passed on to you.
Are you ready?
Are you excited to hear it?
Let’s listen very carefully
to this next symposium.
And again,
each speaker will introduce
the next one on the program.
Please pay close attention
to Brother Gage Fleegle
as he begins with the talk entitled
“Love Jehovah—Praise Jehovah.”
The day was Nisan 11, 33 C.E.
Jesus was busy in the temple
teaching just a few days prior to his death.
He silenced the scribes and the Pharisees
with his irrefutable logic,
at the same time
sharing some of the most profound teachings
of his earthly ministry
—for instance, “pay back . . .
Caesar’s things to Caesar,
but God’s things to God.”
Then one of the scribes came forward
and asked Jesus,
What is “the greatest commandment”?
How did Jesus respond?
His response
would have far-reaching implications
even down to our day
for anyone claiming to be a Christian.
We find his response in Mark chapter 12.
I invite you to turn there.
Mark chapter 12—and notice, please,
with me verses 29 and 30,
Mark 12:29, 30:
“Jesus answered:
“‘The first
[or the most important commandment
“‘—the greatest commandment] is,
“‘“Hear, O Israel,
Jehovah our God is one Jehovah,
“‘“and you must love Jehovah your God
“‘“with your whole heart
and with your whole soul
and with your whole mind
and with your whole strength.”’”
“You must love Jehovah.”
Love God.
It sounds simple, right?
Well, billions of people claim to love God,
but they love pleasures more,
or they’re willing to fight
and kill their fellow man,
or they refuse to live
by God’s moral standards.
All such things
contradict their claim to love God.
Well, Jesus demonstrated
that love of God requires
more than a feeling of affection.
Jesus stressed
how completely we must love God
—with our whole heart,
with our whole soul,
with our whole mind,
with our whole strength.
Does that leave anything out?
our eyes?
our ears? our hands?
Well, the study notes on verse 30
help us to understand
that this includes
our emotions, desires, and feelings.
It includes our intellectual faculties
and power of reason.
It includes our physical and mental strength.
Yes, our whole being
—all that we are—
we must devote to our love to Jehovah.
Love for God must govern
a person’s entire life.
Nothing is left out.
Well, shortly after emphasizing
the greatest commandment
—and again we’re thinking of Jesus—
he’s there in the temple.
Shortly after emphasizing
the greatest commandment,
Jesus shines a light
on both bad and good examples
of love for God.
First, he sharply condemned
the scribes and the Pharisees
for their pretense of love for God.
Now, if you want the full condemnation,
it’s found in Matthew chapter 23.
Those hypocrites
—they even gave the tenth, or a tithe,
of small, tiny herbs,
but they ignored
“the weightier matters of . . .
justice and mercy and faithfulness.”
That was the bad example.
But then Jesus gave his attention
to an outstanding example of love for God.
If you’re still there in Mark chapter 12,
notice starting in verse 41:
“And [Jesus] sat down
with the treasury chests in view
“and began observing how the crowd
was dropping money into the treasury chests,
“and many rich people
were dropping in many coins.
“Now a poor widow came and dropped in
“two small coins of very little value.
“So he called his disciples to him
and said to them:
“‘Truly I say to you that this poor widow
put in more than all the others
“‘who put money into the treasury chests.
“‘For they all put in out of their surplus,
“‘but she, out of her want,
put in everything she had,
all she had to live on.’”
The coins of the needy widow
were worth about 15 minutes of wages.
Yet, Jesus expressed
his Father’s view of her worship.
He commended her whole-souled sacrifice.
What do we learn?
Well, clearly,
the lessons go far beyond material giving.
Motive in our worship of Jehovah
is important to him.
Jehovah doesn’t compare us with others
or even previous versions of ourselves
—younger versions of ourselves.
Jehovah simply wants love for him
with our whole heart, soul,
mind, and strength,
not as they were 10 or 20 years ago,
but as they currently are now.
Now, a question
in reference to love for Jehovah,
Is it reasonable for Jehovah
to expect us to love him
with our whole heart, soul,
mind, and strength?
Is it reasonable?
Yes, absolutely.
Why can we say that?
Because Jehovah loves us
with his whole heart, soul,
mind, and strength.
How so?
Well, let’s turn
to Isaiah chapters 40 through 44,
and there we’ll consider
a few of the many reasons
we have to love Jehovah.
And at the same time,
we’ll consider some examples
of the depth of Jehovah’s love for us.
So our first example is in Isaiah chapter 40,
and notice, please, verse 11.
Isaiah 40:11—there it says:
“Like a shepherd he will care for his flock.
“With his arm
he will gather together the lambs,
“and in his bosom he will carry them.
He will gently lead
those nursing their young.”
Here we find
a beautiful word picture of Jehovah.
Jehovah is a tender Shepherd.
At Ezekiel 34:15, 16, Jehovah says:
“I myself will feed my sheep . . .
“The lost one I will search for,
the stray I will bring back,
“the injured I will bandage
[as we notice in the illustration],
and the weak I will strengthen.”
What a touching picture
of compassion and tender care!
If we fall and hurt ourselves
or if we stumble in the briar patch,
so to speak,
Jehovah bandages us.
He helps us to heal.
When we seek his help,
he doesn’t reproach us:
“You should have known better.”
No.
But he does try to help us
not to stray in the future
with reminders from his Word.
And what is the effect on the sheep?
Well, as we saw in the illustration,
he feels secure in Jehovah’s care.
How do we feel in Jehovah’s care,
his compassionate care?
We too feel secure.
We might say that Jehovah loves us
with all his heart—his compassion.
Doesn’t that increase your love for him?
Let’s consider a second reason
that we have to love Jehovah.
Isaiah chapter 40
—notice verses 28 and 29.
Verse 28 says:
“Do you not know?
Have you not heard?
“Jehovah,
the Creator of the ends of the earth,
“is a God for all eternity.
“He never tires out or grows weary.
“His understanding is unsearchable.
“He gives power to the tired one
and full might to those lacking strength.”
With Jehovah’s mighty holy spirit,
he created everything
—beginning with his firstborn Son
to myriads of mighty spirit creatures
to the vast universe
with its trillions upon trillions of stars
to this beautiful earth
with its endless variety
of plant and animal life
to the human body
with its awe-inspiring ability
and versatility.
Jehovah is truly the Almighty Creator.
Now, think about this:
What happens when you or I
become completely exhausted,
completely tired?
Maybe at the end of a long day
when a human becomes physically tired,
how does he recharge?
Do we plug into a charging station
like an electric car?
No.
We’re marvelously designed
to recharge through rest
and the food
that we take into our bodies, our fuel.
The calories, the energy in food
are evidence of Jehovah’s love.
Not only does it recharge us
but it brings us delight too.
What did you have for breakfast,
maybe here at the Assembly Hall?
The average glazed doughnut
contains about 190 to 300 calories.
We hope you’re not counting calories
during this annual meeting season.
But whatever your choice,
the energy and food is a gift of Almighty God
to help sustain us, to recharge us.
And now a question that we ask, though,
What happens when we become tired
of dealing with life’s trials,
maybe with problems
that don’t have a solution
in this system of things?
Well, when we maintain
a good spiritual routine,
then Jehovah gives us power
—“power to the tired one.”
His holy spirit strengthens us,
enables us to go forward
in the battle yet another day.
The “power beyond what is normal”
strengthens us.
Yes, Jehovah gives power to the tired one.
We might say that Jehovah loves us
with all his strength.
Doesn’t that draw you to him as a Person?
Let’s consider another reason
we have to love Jehovah,
this time at Isaiah 41:10, 13.
There our God says:
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
“I will fortify you, yes, I will help you,
I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.”
Verse 13:
“For I, Jehovah your God,
“am grasping your right hand,
“the One saying to you,
‘Do not be afraid.
I will help you.’”
Jehovah is our Helper.
Jehovah grasps our right hand
with his “right hand of righteousness.”
In other words, he at times pulls us out
of distressing circumstances in life.
Jehovah rescued his people
from slavery in Egypt.
Isaiah 63:9 says:
“During all their distress
it was distressing to him. . . .
And he lifted them up
and carried them all the days of old.”
When was the last time
that Jehovah rescued you from a trial?
In Psalm 18,
David used very poetic language
to describe Jehovah’s remarkable ability
to rescue us
—Psalm 18:8-10:
“Smoke ascended from his nostrils,
“and a consuming fire
came from his mouth . . .
“He made the heavens bend
as he descended,
“and thick gloom was beneath his feet.
“He rode on a cherub and came flying.
He swooped down on the wings of a spirit.”
Verse 16 says:
“He reached down from on high;
he took hold of me
and pulled me from deep waters.”
Verse 19:
“He brought me out into a place of safety;
he rescued me
because he was pleased with me.”
Can you imagine Jehovah reaching down
with his right hand of righteousness
and rescuing you from a trial?
Why?
Because Jehovah loves us
with all his soul, his whole being.
How does that make you feel?
Does it draw you closer
to your heavenly Father?
Let’s consider a fourth reason
we have to love Jehovah.
Isaiah 42:8, 9
—it says:
“I am Jehovah.
“That is my name;
I give my glory to no one else,
“nor my praise to graven images.
“See, the first things have come to pass;
“now I am declaring new things.
Before they spring up,
I tell you about them.”
Why is this a reason to love Jehovah?
He’s a God of prophecy.
What does that mean in simple terms?
Well, Jehovah keeps his promises.
It’s linked to his name, Jehovah,
which we understand to mean
“He Causes to Become.”
“Not one word of all his good promise
that he made through Moses his servant
has failed.”
Who said it?
Well, Joshua and Solomon
both expressed similar thoughts.
But now here we are,
3,000 years after Solomon.
We have more reasons to say that;
more prophecies
have been fulfilled since then.
God’s Kingdom rules.
Pure worship has been restored.
We can emphatically say:
‘Not one word of all Jehovah’s good promises
has failed.’
But how does that make us love him more?
Well, prophecy is the basis for hope.
So when we hear Isaiah 33:24
or John 5:28, 29
or Revelation 21:3, 4,
we think about the effect
that the disappearance
of sickness, pain, and death
will have for us and for our loved ones.
The resurrection
—do you long to welcome back loved ones?
It’s as good as done.
God’s personal name is a guarantee.
Jehovah “makes the dead alive
“and calls the things that are not
as though they are.”
Why?
Because his promises
are absolutely certain (a fulfillment).
At Jeremiah 29:11,
there Jehovah says:
“I well know the thoughts
that I am thinking toward you, . . .
thoughts of peace, and not of calamity,
to give you a future and a hope.”
We might say Jehovah loves us
with all his mind.
Jehovah will make
his very own thoughts toward you a reality.
How does that make you feel?
Well, from Isaiah’s prophecy,
we’ve considered just four reasons
to love Jehovah.
First, he’s our Shepherd;
second, he’s our Creator;
third, he’s our Helper;
and finally, he’s a God of prophecy.
Certainly, you can think of other reasons
to love Jehovah.
Note what a few individuals said
when asked why they
particularly loved Jehovah.
One brother said, “I love Jehovah
because he listens to my prayers.”
One sister said:
“Jehovah is approachable.
“It’s a privilege to have a friend
whom I can talk to at any moment of the day
and know that he will understand me.”
Another sister said:
“Because of all the things he made
“for absolutely no reason
except that he loves us.
“We don’t need to taste food to survive.
“The sunset doesn’t need to be beautiful.
“Music doesn’t have to exist.
“But it does.
“One reason I love Jehovah is
because he goes above and beyond
in his love for us.”
Another brother said this,
“I love Jehovah for his forgiveness.”
And, really, doesn’t that bring to our minds
Jehovah’s greatest expression of love,
the ransom sacrifice of his Son, Jesus?
So the question for each of us is,
‘Why do I love Jehovah?’
Why do you love Jehovah?
Well, what does our love motivate us to do?
It’s linked with the words of Isaiah 43:10.
At Isaiah 43:10, Jehovah says:
“You are my witnesses, . . .
yes, my servant whom I have chosen.”
How thrilling it must have been in 1931
to hear Brother Rutherford
express the new name
that we’ve come to cherish (1931),
Jehovah’s Witnesses!
And for what purpose
has Jehovah chosen us as his Witnesses?
There, in Isaiah chapter 43,
notice verse 21—it says:
“The people whom I formed for myself
so that they might declare my praise.”
Jehovah has chosen us to declare his praise.
Love Jehovah; praise Jehovah.
What a privilege!
Jehovah could use rocks;
he could use trees;
he could use birds;
he could use beasts of the field.
But no, he’s chosen his faithful servants.
He’s chosen you and me to declare his praise.
Recently on a trip
to the western United States,
my wife and I were able to observe
bison, elk, and moose
—from a safe distance, of course.
They’re humongous, very powerful animals.
Well, what if Jehovah had chosen one of them
to declare his praise?
Every time you would approach they would say,
“Praise Jah.”
But he hasn’t.
They just eat grass.
They praise Jehovah in a different way.
But the fact of the matter is
that Jehovah has chosen us
to declare his praise,
to extol his virtues.
Jehovah isn’t looking for programmed praise
or forced or coerced praise
but praise that comes
from a heart full of love.
Love for God’s remarkable qualities
motivates us
to tell the whole world
about our great God.
But many don’t want to listen.
What if we face opposition
even from governments?
Isaiah 44:8
is what we need to keep in mind
because, as we’ve considered
already during this program,
the time will come when we’re going
to face opposition (Isaiah 44:8);
some of our brothers in many places
are already facing opposition.
Notice what it says
“Do not be in dread,
“and do not become paralyzed
with fear.
“Have I not told each of you beforehand
and declared it?
“You are my witnesses.
“Is there any God but me?
No, there is no other Rock; I know of none.”
Jehovah says:
“Do not be in dread . . .
Do not become paralyzed with fear.”
“Pay back . . . Caesar’s things to Caesar,
but God’s things to God.”
Caesar is on shaky ground
when he interferes with what God requires.
So rather than being paralyzed with fear,
love for Jehovah conquers fear
and moves us to continue praising him.
And we’ve seen such determination
in our international family of Witnesses.
A faithful sister named Tatyana
—her criminal case for praising Jehovah
is pending.
And her husband
is currently in pretrial detention.
But she says:
“During the most difficult moments,
“I continue to sense that Jehovah is with me
“and I feel confident that with his help
“I can endure whatever trials may yet come.
“My heart is filled with peace and calmness.
“I am more determined than ever
to tell others about Jehovah.
I am proud to be one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!”
Yes, Tatyana’s love for Jehovah
moves her to continue praising him.
Well, the Bible doesn’t tell us
how many hours we have to share
in the ministry each month,
but it does tell us that love for God
must be our motivation.
The greater our love,
the fuller our share will be
in accord with our personal circumstances.
We prove that we are Jehovah’s Witnesses
by our conduct
and by our zeal
in praising him formally and informally.
May our deep love for Jehovah
move us to tell as many people as possible
about our great God, Jehovah.
Well, for the next three talks
of this symposium,
the first will discuss how love for Jehovah
motivated his people in ancient times.
The second and the third talk will discuss
how love for Jehovah
motivates his people in modern times
and, finally,
how the second greatest commandment
should motivate us.
Will we hear some adjustments?
Will we consider
a fresh approach to our ministry?
Stay tuned!
First, we’ll give our attention
to Brother Gerrit Lösch,
a member of the Governing Body,
who will discuss the theme
“Love for Jehovah—In Ancient Times.”
All of us appreciate and enjoy
receiving a gift,
but to be able to give a gift to others
brings us even more joy.
As the Great Giver of all good things,
Jehovah rejoices in giving
and wants humans to enjoy giving.
He is the first Giver.
He is the greatest Giver.
He gave life to spirit sons and to humans.
He gave Adam a lovely wife.
He gave them a paradise to live in.
In turn, Adam and Eve
were given the opportunity
to give of their time and energy
to take care of their earthly home
and to spread the garden of Eden
into a global paradise
inhabited by righteous humans.
Later in human history,
Jehovah created the nation of Israel
and gave them a beautiful land
full of good things.
How could the Israelites
show their appreciation?
Jehovah again provided
an opportunity for his people to give;
in this case,
he gave them a command to tithe.
What is that?
To tithe means
to give a tenth of something.
Israelites were to give Jehovah
a tenth of all their produce and animals.
We can read that account
at Leviticus 27:30, 32.
Follow me as I read from the screen.
Verse 30 says:
“Every tenth part of the land,
“whether from the produce of the field
or the fruit of the trees,
“belongs to Jehovah.
It is something holy to Jehovah.”
Verse 32 says:
“As for every tenth part
of the herd and flock,
“everything that passes
under the shepherd’s staff,
the tenth animal should become
something holy to Jehovah.”
Did you notice that Jehovah said
the tithe was a holy gift
that belonged to him?
And yet,
what did Jehovah do with that tithe?
He generously gave it,
or passed it on,
to the tribe of the Levites,
who had no land inheritance.
Again, follow along on the screen
as I read Numbers 18:21:
“Now see that I have given
to the sons of Levi
“every tenth part in Israel
as an inheritance
“in return for the service
they are carrying out,
the service of the tent of meeting.”
Verse 24 says:
“For I have given to the Levites
as an inheritance
“the tenth part contributed
by the people of Israel,
“which they will contribute to Jehovah.
“That is why I have said to them,
‘In the midst of the Israelites,
they should not take possession
of an inheritance.’”
Think how this arrangement
proved to be a blessing to the Levites,
who devoted their time and attention
to Jehovah’s service at the tabernacle.
The arrangement also proved
to be a blessing to all Israel,
to have one tribe completely devoted
to caring for the tabernacle
and, later, the temple of Jehovah.
But how would the Levites show
their appreciation and love to Jehovah?
They also were commanded to tithe.
According to verses 26-29,
they would contribute a tenth
of their contributions,
which they received,
to the Aaronic priests for their support.
It seems the Israelites were also required
to set aside an additional tenth
to cover the expense
of attending
the three national festivals to Jehovah.
Every third and sixth year
these funds were given to the Levites,
alien residents, widows,
and fatherless boys
in the local community.
So, what have we learned
about giving and tithing?
As we have seen,
the tithing arrangement
provided a wonderful way for God’s people
to show their love
and appreciation for Jehovah
and to support pure worship.
Imagine also how those who were disadvantaged
—the alien residents, widows,
and fatherless boys—
also appreciated this loving provision!
But did you know
there was something else very interesting
about the tithing arrangement?
Nowhere in the Scriptures did Jehovah arrange
for any human to monitor
whether each person
was really giving the entire tenth
of his produce and his animals.
And no one was assigned to enforce
compliance with the tithing arrangement.
So although it was required by law,
tithing was entirely
between the individual Israelite and Jehovah.
Thus, the arrangement
allowed each Israelite
to demonstrate his personal love for Jehovah.
But what if somebody secretly held back
and did not give Jehovah the whole tithe,
perhaps giving less than a tenth?
How would Jehovah feel about that?
Would he be inclined
to bless those who were stingy?
That’s not likely.
On the other hand,
how would Jehovah feel about those
who generously gave
even more than a tenth?
Well, we don’t have to guess.
Remember when faithful King Hezekiah
promoted pure worship
and encouraged tithing?
What happened?
Let’s see at 2 Chronicles 31:4-6:
“Furthermore,
“he commanded the people living in Jerusalem
“to give the portion due
“the priests and the Levites,
“so that they might adhere strictly
“to the law of Jehovah.
“As soon as the order was issued,
“the Israelites gave in great quantities
“the firstfruits of the grain, new wine,
“oil, and honey,
“and of all the produce of the field;
“they brought in abundantly
“the tenth of everything.
“And the people of Israel and of Judah
“living in the cities of Judah
“also brought in
the tenth of cattle and sheep
“and the tenth of the holy things
“that were sanctified to Jehovah their God.
They brought it in and put it in many heaps.”
So how did Jehovah feel
about the generosity of his people?
Let’s note verses 9 and 10:
“Hezekiah asked the priests and the Levites
about the heaps,
“and Azariah the chief priest
of the house of Zadok
“said to him:
“‘From the time
they started bringing the contributions
“‘into the house of Jehovah,
“‘the people have been eating to satisfaction
“‘and there is still an abundant surplus,
“‘for Jehovah has blessed his people,
and this great plenty is left over.’”
Yes, Jehovah richly blessed faithful ones
who generously supported
the tithing arrangement.
Sadly,
Israel eventually lost their generous spirit
and neglected the tithe.
So some years later,
Jehovah inspired the prophet Malachi
to remind the nation
of their privilege of giving.
What did Jehovah say?
Let’s see at Malachi 3:10:
“‘Bring the entire tithe into the storehouse,
“‘so that there may be food in my house;
“and test me out, please, in this regard,’
“Jehovah of armies says,
“‘to see whether I will not open to you
“‘the floodgates of the heavens
“‘and pour out on you a blessing
until there is nothing lacking.’”
Can you imagine that?
It was as if Jehovah
was challenging each Israelite to test him.
Would Jehovah really bless those
who gave him the full tithe,
so that they lacked nothing?
Yes, absolutely!
Today, of course,
we are no longer under the Mosaic Law,
with its tithing requirement.
Rather than being commanded
to give a tenth of our income,
2 Corinthians 9:7 says:
“Let each one do
“just as he has resolved in his heart,
“not grudgingly or under compulsion,
for God loves a cheerful giver.”
So, what have we learned
from our brief discussion of tithing?
That Jehovah created us
to find joy in giving.
And we give generously
of our time and resources
because we love Jehovah,
not because someone is observing
and keeping track of what we do.
We also learned
that Jehovah richly blesses obedience
that comes from hearts full of love for him.
But is there more we can learn
from Jehovah’s dealings with ancient Israel?
Yes, we can learn
from the Nazirite arrangement.
What was that?
The Nazirite arrangement
is described in Numbers chapter 6.
Let’s read chapter 6, verses 1 and 2.
It says:
“Jehovah spoke further to Moses and said:
“‘Speak to the Israelites and tell them,
“‘“If a man or a woman takes a special vow
to live as a Nazirite to Jehovah, . . .”’”
Notice that Israelites,
both men and women,
could volunteer to become a Nazirite.
This meant that they had to meet
certain requirements
that were not imposed
on Israelites in general.
What were those requirements?
Numbers 6:3-7 explains
that Nazirites had to
(1) avoid alcohol
and “anything made from the grapevine,”
(2) avoid cutting their hair,
and (3) avoid touching a dead body.
By voluntarily submitting
to these additional requirements,
Nazirites demonstrated
their love for Jehovah in a special way.
How so?
Imagine that you hire someone
to perform repair work on your house.
After performing the repair,
the worker notices
other repairs that are needed,
and he tells you he will do those as well
—and at no additional charge.
How would you feel about this worker?
Would you not appreciate his extra efforts
to go beyond what he was asked to do?
You might even give him extra pay.
And how would the worker feel?
Because he is a generous person,
he will experience the joy
of giving more than what was asked.
The same was true of the Nazirites.
Jehovah did not require anyone
to become a Nazirite.
But he created this arrangement.
Why?
Evidently,
he knew that some faithful Israelites
would voluntarily submit
to extra requirements
out of their great love for him.
And their appreciation for Jehovah
would prompt them
to do even more for him.
No doubt
this brought joy to Jehovah’s heart,
to see his people manifest
a generous, appreciative spirit in this way.
So, what can we learn
from the Nazirite arrangement?
That Jehovah
deeply appreciates and favors those
who show their love for him
by going beyond what is required.
Today, this is true of ones
who have the circumstances to pioneer
and those who are able to serve
as volunteers at branch offices
and in other theocratic assignments.
As we know,
Jehovah discontinued the Mosaic Law,
with its provisions
for tithing, for Nazirites,
and for the many animal sacrifices.
Colossians 2:14 says that Jehovah
“erased the handwritten document,”
that is, the Law covenant.
However, are there lessons we can learn
from these past arrangements
for supporting pure worship?
Yes.
Romans 15:4 reminds us
that “all the things
that were written beforehand
were written for our instruction.”
So does Jehovah’s organization today
benefit from the principles
behind the tithing and Nazirite arrangements?
How do we as individuals
support modern-day arrangements
for pure worship?
And does a closer examination
of the arrangements
for pure worship in ancient Israel
indicate a need
for further adjustments today?
For the answers to these questions,
let us give our attention
to Brother Samuel Herd,
a member of the Governing Body,
who will share the next talk
in this symposium,
entitled
“Love for Jehovah—In Modern Times.”
As you listened to Brother Lösch
discuss the arrangements
for tithing and Naziriteship,
did you try to make
a connection with arrangements
that we have for modern-day worship?
Maybe you were wondering,
‘What corresponds to tithing today?’
As Brother Lösch mentioned,
although tithing
was a requirement for the Israelites,
it also provided Jehovah’s people
with regular opportunities
to demonstrate their love for Jehovah
by giving him their best.
Of course, we no longer
have a fixed amount of our income
that we are commanded to give to Jehovah.
The tithing arrangement
ended with the Mosaic Law,
and Galatians 6:2
says we are now
under “the law of the Christ.”
True Christians today give Jehovah
‘just as they have resolved in their hearts.’
But the tithing arrangement
illustrates something
that Jehovah still expects
of his people today.
Remember, the tithe was to be,
not just a tenth,
but the best tenth of a person’s produce
and his animals.
Jehovah deserves nothing less
than our very best.
With that in mind,
how can we give Jehovah our very best?
Of course, we try hard
to obey all of Jehovah’s commands.
But there is one command
that stands out as an identifying mark
of true Christians today.
What is it?
Let’s read it together on the screen
at Matthew 28:19, 20.
It says:
“Go, therefore,
“and make disciples of people
of all the nations,
“baptizing them in the name of the Father
“and of the Son and of the holy spirit,
“teaching them to observe all the things
“I have commanded you.
“And look!
I am with you all the days
until the conclusion
of the system of things.”
Were you surprised that we read that verse?
Of course not.
We see from these verses
that the disciple-making work
is a requirement for all Christians.
And you dear brothers and sisters
have built your lives around that scripture.
You have given and continue to give
your very best to obey
this lifesaving command.
And we commend you for that.
Jehovah’s organization
has always been interested
in seeing how this great worldwide work
has been progressing.
We enjoy seeing
our annual report published each year
as we see the number
of Kingdom publishers increasing.
The worldwide report helps the Governing Body
to see where to send missionaries,
special pioneers, and pioneers.
Let’s watch a video
that highlights how Jehovah’s people
have taken this commission
seriously over the years.
When did we begin reporting
field service activity?
Prior to 1920,
only colporteurs,
as pioneers were then called,
were asked to submit reports.
But beginning in 1920,
everyone in the congregation
who participated in the witness work
was asked to turn in a weekly report.
The 1920 annual service report
for the United States
was the first to include the activity
of congregation publishers.
That report revealed
that there were 8,052 class workers, or publishers,
and 350 pioneers active in the preaching work.
Twice a year during the late 1920’s,
one week was designated
for a special worldwide witnessing campaign.
Pioneers had a goal of 40 hours
for that special week.
In January 1939,
a suggestion was placed
before congregation publishers:
a goal of 60 hours per month.
Early on,
congregation field service reports were
thorough.
Over the years, the forms used
to report publisher’s field service activity
have been simplified.
Reports have consistently included
back calls, or return visits;
Bible studies;
publication placements;
and hours spent in the disciple-making work.
As was the case back then,
there’s always a story
behind a field service report.
The first time I walked into a Kingdom Hall
when I was 16,
I saw this chart on the stage
and I realized
this organization is concerned
about what we do,
what we say,
and how much we say about Jehovah.
I realized that from the start.
So after the third month of studying,
when I started going out in field service,
I wanted to turn my time in too.
And they showed me how to do it,
and I’ve been turning it in ever since.
Alan and I were invited
into the special pioneer service
in 1966.
The monthly requirement was 150 hours
and 50 return visits.
It was a good incentive.
Well, we had a quota back then
of 150 magazines, one for every hour,
as special pioneers or missionaries.
And one day we ran
into our fellow missionary and his wife
on the way to the movies.
They went every Saturday, every Saturday.
But this particular Saturday he said:
“Ugh! I can’t go to the movies
because I don’t have my 150 magazines!
So I’ve got five more to go,
and then we can go to the movies.”
This started in 1961
when we were sent as special pioneers.
We started pioneering in a trailer
and five hours of service every day,
every day.
And getting our time was no problem.
Living for a month on $100,
that was a problem.
So Dave said,
“I’m going to go out and get a job.”
About that time,
they had put a new store in town.
Beautiful!
He went down to that store and told him,
“I’m going to work one day a week.”
“What are you going to do
the rest of the time?”
So he said, “Well, I knock on doors
and tell them about God’s Kingdom.”
He said: “Really?
“This is my door.
Knock on it.”
He came in the truth,
his wife came in the truth,
and the children are in the truth.
And they had a secretary, didn’t they?
Mm-hmm.
She had seven children.
And she said,
“Well, I’d like to study the Bible too.”
And we would study with the seven
after they had supper.
The beauty of it was that they did so well.
Yeah.
After that, we studied with the parents.
So by the time we got through,
it was probably almost midnight.
And we took our circuit overseer there.
He said,
“I’m too old for this midnight shift.”
I never felt that it was a question
of getting the hours in.
I’d always try to make them quality calls,
you know.
I’d try to say something to the people
and not just go there
and get the magazines placed.
Or my Bible studies,
I would try so hard
to really get to know the people.
But it was never just a question
of getting in hours.
We’re trying to save lives!
Isn’t that wonderful,
to hear from those dear faithful ones?
And Brother Buettell is now 100 years of age,
and Sister Buettell is 98.
What a good start on living forever!
As we’ve seen, the arrangement
for reporting our field activity
has served a valuable purpose for many years.
However, as Brother Fleegle mentioned
in the opening talk of this symposium,
Jehovah’s people are motivated
to praise Jehovah
because of our great love for him.
Sharing in the ministry also reflects
our sincere love for our neighbors
and our love for the good news.
So we engage in our ministry,
not because we fill out a report each month,
but we might say
that it’s because our ministry
is our personal gift to Jehovah
and to our neighbors.
But Jehovah is realistic.
He knows that many
of our brothers and sisters
are limited by circumstances
such as advancing age
or serious health issues.
Others cope with the rising cost of living,
civil strife, war,
or opposition to our work.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic
greatly limited what many
of us were able to do in the ministry.
Some who have preached faithfully for decades
may be embarrassed to report
little time in the ministry.
If that is true of you,
should you feel
that you have failed in some way?
Not at all!
Note the principle
at 2 Corinthians 8:12:
“For if the readiness is there first,
“it is especially acceptable
“according to what a person has,
not according
to what a person does not have.”
If we are giving Jehovah our best,
he wants us to rejoice in what we do,
not to feel guilty about what we cannot do.
The Scriptures associate
sacrifices to Jehovah with joy.
For example,
Nehemiah 12:43 says:
“On that day they offered
“great sacrifices and rejoiced,
“for the true God made them rejoice
with great joy.”
Can you imagine Jehovah
judging an Israelite unfaithful
because his tenth was less
than another person’s tenth?
Of course not.
Everyone’s circumstances
and abilities are different.
Brother Lösch explained that although tithing
was a requirement in ancient Israel,
Jehovah did not require others
to monitor, or keep track of,
each person’s tithe.
Tithing was entirely between
the individual Israelite and Jehovah.
The Governing Body believes
this same principle can be applied
when it comes to reporting our time
spent in the ministry.
Our ministry involves much more
than counting time.
For this reason,
we are pleased to announce that beginning
November 1, 2023,
congregation publishers will no longer
be asked to report the amount of time
they spend in the ministry.
Nor will publishers be asked
to report their placements,
the videos they show, or their return visits.
Instead, the field service report
will simply have a box
that will allow each publisher
to indicate that he or she shared
in any form of the ministry during the month.
There will be one more box where publishers
report the number
of different Bible studies they conduct.
This simplified report
serves a valuable purpose.
It will allow us to know the number
of active publishers in each land.
It will also help us to know
whether certain territories
are producing Bible studies
and where there
is a greater need for pioneers,
special pioneers,
missionaries, and Kingdom Halls.
Although publishers will no longer
report their time in the ministry,
we all want to follow faithfully the words
of Colossians chapter 3,
verses 23 and 24:
“Whatever you are doing,
“work at it whole-souled
“as for Jehovah,
“and not for men,
“for you know that it is from Jehovah
“you will receive
the inheritance as a reward.
Slave for the Master, Christ.”
The Governing Body is confident
that you dear ones
will continue to render
whole-souled service to Jehovah
by doing all that you can in his service.
And just as Jehovah
richly blessed faithful Israelites
who generously supported
the tithing arrangement,
he will richly bless
your “sacrifice of praise.”
But wait!
What about the Nazirite arrangement?
Is there a similar provision
in the modern-day organization?
Certainly!
We all do well
to imitate the Nazirites’ example
of self-sacrifice and courage.
However, as Brother Lösch explained,
the Nazirites
had to meet certain requirements
that were not expected
of Israelites in general.
The same is true of modern-day pioneers.
They have volunteered
to devote a certain number of hours
to spend in the ministry.
Thus, auxiliary and regular pioneers,
special pioneers, missionaries,
and circuit overseers and their wives
will continue to report the number of hours
they spend in the ministry,
along with the number
of different Bible studies they conduct.
As you know, the Governing Body
recently reduced the hour requirements
for auxiliary pioneers, regular pioneers,
special pioneers, field missionaries,
and circuit overseers and their wives.
It gave us great joy to do that,
and we are convinced that as a result,
even more will be able
to join the ranks of the pioneers.
Why are we so confident of that?
Because of what it says at Psalm 110:3:
“Your people will offer themselves willingly
on the day of your military force.”
Yes, Jehovah promises that his people,
and young ones in particular,
will reach out to do more
in this time of the end.
Many pioneers eventually attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers;
they become special pioneers,
field missionaries,
and even circuit overseers
who serve with their wives.
We thank Jehovah for those who reach out
to serve as pioneers.
But let’s think for a moment
what this adjustment will mean for all of us.
Isn’t it true that reporting
our field service activity each month
has served as a reminder?
Our monthly report reminded us
to be regular in the ministry,
to use our various publications and videos,
and to make return visits.
But what about now?
Will we still be conscientious
about having an active share
in the ministry each month?
Remember that with the tithing arrangement,
each individual was responsible
to give their full tithe to Jehovah.
Likewise, each of us
will want to set personal goals
to make sure we have a zealous share
in the ministry.
Love for Jehovah will move us
to have a schedule
to make sure the ministry
continues to take priority in our lives.
What will these adjustments
in reporting our ministry
mean for you elders and circuit overseers?
It will be even more important
that you brothers be discerning shepherds.
You will have to know the flock well.
For example,
evaluating a congregation’s spiritual health
or a brother’s qualifications
to serve as an elder or ministerial servant
will not simply be
a matter of computing averages
—time spent in the ministry,
literature placements, and so forth.
No, you will have to know the brothers.
What is their attitude toward the ministry?
Are they zealous for pure worship?
What is their reputation
in regard to the ministry?
Do they take advantage
of opportunities to give a witness?
Do they help others to do so,
including the members of their family?
As we have discussed,
Jehovah clearly deserves our best,
and we demonstrate our love for him
by exerting ourselves in the ministry
and in all other aspects of our worship.
Jehovah loves you for that.
And we love you for that.
We know you will continue to manifest
the spirit expressed at Psalm 54:6.
It says:
“I will sacrifice to you willingly.
“I will praise your name, O Jehovah,
for it is good.”
So we have no doubt
that you will continue to give Jehovah
your very best in the disciple-making work.
But is there still more
we can learn from the Scriptures
about the way we conduct our ministry?
If so, are additional adjustments
appropriate at this time?
To find out, let us give our attention
to Brother Mark Sanderson,
a member of the Governing Body,
who will share the final talk
in this symposium,
entitled
“Love People—Make Disciples.”
Well, brothers and sisters,
hasn’t this been an amazing program?
This is truly a historic day
in the history of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And maybe our hearts right now
are more full of love and appreciation
for our wonderful God, Jehovah,
than ever before.
We’ve deepened our understanding
of Jehovah’s mercy,
his compassion, and his patience.
And what about that announcement
about our field service reporting?
Jehovah is dignifying us.
He has confidence in us.
You see,
why do we go from house to house?
Why do we do cart work?
Why do we make
telephone calls and write letters
and make return visits
and start Bible studies?
Why do we do all of these things?
It’s because we truly love
our amazing and wonderful God, Jehovah.
As Brother Fleegle emphasized in his talk,
at Matthew 22:37,
Jesus identified
the greatest and first commandment.
Do you remember what he said?
“You must love Jehovah your God
with your whole heart
and with your whole soul
and with your whole mind.”
But is there something else
that moves us to make disciples?
Yes.
It’s what Jesus said
was the second greatest commandment.
Jesus said:
“You must love your neighbor
as yourself.”
So we must love God,
but we must also love people.
Now, why is love for people so important?
Well, because when we see
that someone cares about us,
we are moved even
if we don’t know that person.
For example, maybe someone you’ve
never met before does a kind deed for you.
Maybe they open a door for you,
they pick something up that you’ve dropped,
or they help you carry a heavy load.
How do you feel?
Well, you appreciate  their kindness,
don’t you?
And as a result,
you’re more inclined to want to listen
to what that person might want to say to you.
You see, when we sense
that someone has love for us,
we open up our hearts.
Well, unselfish love is so powerful.
It touches the hearts
of those who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life.”
And Jesus said
that his true disciples would be identified
—they’d be recognized—
by the love that they had in their midst.
Well, isn’t it true
that so often brothers and sisters
say that what it was
that drew them to the truth
was the love
they felt from their Bible teacher
or from the congregation
when they began to attend meetings?
Well, very likely that same love
was what drew you
to want to become a disciple of Christ Jesus.
Well, for that reason,
at the 2017 annual meeting,
the Governing Body
encouraged us to begin to think more
about conversing with people.
And at that same meeting,
you’ll remember that we simplified
our Teaching Toolbox
so that we could become more familiar
with the various tools
that we use in the ministry.
You see,
we want to carefully consider
each individual’s personal situation
—the concerns that they have,
the interests that they have—
and then be flexible in choosing a topic
that we want to discuss with them.
Well, for several years now,
our midweek meetings have provided us
with sample conversations,
with suggested scriptures,
and even with a suggested link
to help us to continue
the conversation at a later time.
But is there a challenge sometimes
with a memorized presentation?
You know, I think back
to when I was a brand-new pioneer.
One day,
I was out with this sister in the ministry.
As we were going to the door, you know,
she was actually mouthing her presentation.
She had it perfectly memorized.
And suddenly,
this woman came to the door.
She opened the door,
and here she was
—a beautiful older lady with her hair done,
makeup on, beautifully dressed—
looking like she was just going out.
And the sister
was so flustered that she said:
“Oh, I’m sorry.
Did we get you out of bed?”
Yeah, memorized presentations
are not always good.
Well, maybe we’ve memorized presentations,
and sometimes we feel like we’re
giving a talk when we’re at the door.
But what if the person
has a very specific interest?
What if they have some special need
or they’re facing some terrible challenge
just at the time when we’re calling?
Well, we want to look
to the example of our Lord Jesus Christ.
He set the perfect example for us.
He showed love for people
by choosing subjects that were appropriate
for each individual.
And his personal interest in individuals
attracted people to the message.
Well, for example, do you remember
the time when Jesus had a conversation
with the Pharisee Nicodemus?
Now, Nicodemus was impressed
by Jesus’ miracles,
and he approached Jesus at night
probably because he was afraid of the Jews.
Now, as a Pharisee and a teacher,
Nicodemus evidently must have had
a very great knowledge
of the Hebrew Scriptures.
So, what did Jesus do?
Well, he shared something
with Nicodemus that was completely new.
You see,
he talked about new truths
—about being “born again”
and about seeing “the Kingdom of God.”
He explained to Nicodemus
that he had ‘descended from the heavens’
and that he was
the “only-begotten Son” of God
and that he was the way to everlasting life.
Well, I’m sure you’d agree
that even though Nicodemus was a teacher,
he received quite an education
from Jesus on that night.
But now, does that mean
that Jesus took exactly that same approach
with everyone that he met?
Well, no, not at all.
You see, on another occasion,
when Jesus spoke to the Samaritan woman,
his approach was completely different.
Evidently, the Samaritan woman
had a very basic knowledge
of the Hebrew Scriptures.
So, what did Jesus do?
Well, he noted
the things she was interested in,
like obtaining water and why Jesus as a Jew
would speak with a Samaritan.
Well, Jesus also took
an interest in her family situation.
He noted that she was
very concerned about why Jews
worship in one location
and Samaritans in a different location.
What did Jesus do?
Well, he talked with her
about the things that interested her
and that were of concern to her.
He helped her to see
that worshipping with “spirit and truth”
was more important than the location
where individuals would worship.
And how did that woman respond?
Well, the Bible says
she “left her water jar” there at the well,
she “went off into the city,”
and she gave a powerful witness about Jesus.
She was so effective
that the Samaritans invited Jesus to stay
and many put faith in him.
So, now, what do we learn
from these two simple accounts?
Well, Jesus did not use
a memorized presentation.
He just talked with people,
and he shared with them the truths
that he knew would touch their hearts.
He was very quick to choose topics and words
based on the interests and the concerns
of the person whom he was speaking to.
Well, now, with all of this in mind,
you may be wondering
(well, you’re supposed to be wondering):
‘How can I display that same love
for the people whom I meet?’
Wouldn’t it be wonderful
to have a little bit more help
to see how we can show love
for people and make disciples?
Wouldn’t it be wonderful
to have a publication
that would help us
to be more flexible and more responsive
to the different needs and interests
of the people whom we meet?
And what if that publication
highlighted specific ways that Jesus
and other first-century evangelizers
showed their love as they made disciples?
Well, you will be happy to know
that Jehovah’s organization
has produced just such a publication.
It’s a 32-page brochure entitled
Love People—Make Disciples.
Well, now, would you
like to see a little preview
of what this brochure contains?
Please watch the following video.
This new publication,
Love People—Make Disciples,
is being made available in both print
and digital formats in over 400 languages.
How is the brochure designed
to help us show love for people we meet?
Unlike the tools we’ve used in the past,
this new brochure does not give us
expressions to memorize;
nor does it put the emphasis
on leaving literature.
Rather, it features 12 lessons
that focus on qualities we need to cultivate
to make disciples.
All the lessons are based on Bible accounts
in which Jesus
or another first-century evangelizer
displayed a specific quality in the ministry.
The lessons will help us see
how we can imitate the qualities
they demonstrated as we make disciples.
Each lesson contains a video
that brings the account to life.
A woman of Samaria came to draw water.
Give me a drink.
By cultivating an interest in people,
we can talk about things
that are on their minds.
What truths might we share with people
once a conversation is started?
Appendix A highlights basic Bible truths
that we love to teach.
Make it your goal to learn these basic truths
and the scriptures that support them.
If you do,
you will be more effective
in starting conversations
and in making disciples.
For example, a conversation can be started
by asking a simple question, such as:
“Have you heard that God
will soon end all suffering?”
or “Did you know that the earth’s environment
will be restored?”
Sharing a simple truth
at the right time is powerful.
Jesus said his sheep
would listen to his voice.
In other words, “rightly disposed” ones
will recognize the truth
when they hear it expressed simply.
Appendix B helps us to determine
whether to continue a conversation.
Appendix C provides practical suggestions
on how to conduct Bible studies
in Enjoy Life Forever!
What if you don’t feel comfortable
starting conversations?
Don’t worry!
Beginning in January 2024,
the “Apply Yourself” portion
of each midweek meeting
will help us to practice the points
we are learning in this new brochure.
The meeting
will no longer focus on presenting
a predetermined topic and scripture.
Rather, students will select topics
for their assignments
that they know are on the minds
of those in their community.
By means of realistic demonstrations,
audience discussions,
and talks,
our meetings will assist us to develop skills
that will help us
start conversations naturally
and adapt
to each person’s concerns and needs.
By focusing on people,
we will become more comfortable
and more effective as we make disciples.
As you consider each lesson,
think carefully about how you can demonstrate
the highlighted qualities when conversing
with people in your community.
Ask yourself,
‘What are their concerns and needs?’
As you go about your activities,
be observant.
Look for appropriate opportunities
to help people in practical ways.
Acts of kindness can open the door
to share Kingdom truth.
Show that you care by listening to others
when they express themselves.
Share a simple truth at the right time.
Remember,
our goal is not to memorize a presentation
but to demonstrate
Christlike love to everyone we meet.
This will require patience,
perseverance,
and commitment.
No matter where we live
or under what circumstances we are preaching,
simply showing love will help us
to find joy in our ministry.
More than any specific technique,
actively expressing our love for others
will help us make disciples.
So we indeed thank Jehovah
for this wonderful new tool
to make us more effective in our ministry.
Of course, the question
you may be wondering is,
When will you receive your copy
of this new brochure?
Well, you’ll be pleased to know
that it’s going to be made available
to all congregations in electronic format
and in most places in printed format
by November 6.
In addition,
this entire four-part symposium
will be posted on jw.org on November 6
so that all of our brothers and sisters
will hear the information
in the symposium at the same time.
Isn’t that great?
Of course, we’re all going to want
to read the brochure.
We’re going to want to watch the videos.
But wasn’t it wonderful to hear in this video
that the Governing Body has arranged
to make use of this new publication
beginning in the month of January
during our midweek meeting?
So we’re going to get the opportunity
to put this into practice right away.
So, what have we learned
in this four-part symposium?
In Part One, Brother Fleegle
reminded us why we love Jehovah
and how our love motivates us
to want to praise him.
In Part Two,
Brother Lösch explained the differences
between most Israelites
and those who volunteered to be Nazirites.
In Part Three,
Brother Herd helped us to see
that although congregation publishers
will no longer report
their time in the ministry,
this in no way
diminishes our individual responsibility
to make disciples.
And finally, in this part,
we received a new tool
that will help us to show our love for people
and to make disciples.
It’s really amazing to witness
as Jehovah’s people
the fulfillment of Isaiah 60:17.
You’ll remember the prophecy there.
It says:
“Instead of the copper I will bring in gold,
“and instead of the iron
I will bring in silver,
“instead of the wood, copper,
“and instead of the stones, iron;
“and I will appoint peace as your overseers
and righteousness as your task assigners.”
Well, what’s the point of the prophecy?
You see,
it outlines that good materials
would gradually be replaced
by even better ones.
And that’s exactly what we have seen.
You think back to the 1930’s
when our brothers
became so zealous in the ministry
that they went out with phonographs
and testimony cards.
But, of course,
at that time, they didn’t speak.
Either the record did the speaking
or people read the card.
My mother loved to tell the story
about being in the service
with her pioneer partner.
The door opened,
she handed the man the testimony card
and, of course, didn’t say anything.
The man started to read it.
Suddenly, his wife called out,
“Who’s at the door?”
The man said:
“I don’t know.
There are two deaf women here,
and I’m trying to figure out what they want.”
Well, that was the reality.
We weren’t speaking.
But how Jehovah improved the situation!
He trained his people
how to give an effective witness.
And then we had publications,
like Reasoning From the Scriptures,
that helped us to learn how to use
the Bible to reason with people.
And more recently,
Jehovah has given us
this marvelous tool Enjoy Life Forever!
so that we can conduct
much more quality Bible studies.
And now,
with the release of this brochure,
we’re going to focus on people
and talk about the things
that are of interest to them
and, in that way,
endeavor to reach their heart
so that they can become disciples.
Well, it’s true
that with each
of these organizational adjustments,
we went from something good
to something better.
And I think with the things
that were announced today,
isn’t it true that we’re seeing that again?
We’re going from something
that was good to something even better.
And I think we’d agree, too,
that Jehovah is helping us
to mature as a people.
He has confidence in us
that our concern is not merely
the number of hours
or the publications that we place
that we’re going to put on a report.
We love Jehovah, we love people,
and we want to make disciples.
So, what does all of this mean,
and what does it not mean?
Well, first,
these adjustments do not
—they do not—
mean that we are in any way slacking off
in our ministry.
It does not mean that we are slowing down
as we approach the great tribulation.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
Right now we have more
than 50,000 applications
from students who want to attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
We’re appointing new missionaries,
new special pioneers,
temporary special pioneers,
and an army of new regular pioneers.
And in some lands,
like the Philippines
(sorry, I have to mention the Philippines),
we are experiencing record growth.
Can you imagine
a 9 percent increase this year
with a new peak of 253,876 publishers
and 12,954 baptized
just in this last year?
Isn’t that amazing?
So please know
—please know—
that in no way is the work slowing down.
Our ministry has never
been more important than it is now.
So, what, then, do these adjustments mean?
Well, they do mean that our motivation
for carrying out the ministry
has been even more clarified.
You see,
we share in the ministry
because we love Jehovah
and because we love people.
So this is the time when we want to be busy
in Jehovah’s work.
Do you remember Jesus’ parable
of the master and the three slaves?
That parable was designed to teach us
what we need to be doing
while we’re waiting for the end to come.
Two of those slaves were industrious,
and they doubled the master’s money
and, as a result, they were blessed.
We want to have that same
industrious, diligent spirit.
We want elders
and ministerial servants and pioneers
to take the lead in the ministry.
But all of us
in our personal ministry
want to be even more zealous
in what we want
to accomplish in our ministry.
What an exciting time this is!
The Governing Body sincerely hopes
that many more will come to join us
in serving Jehovah before the end comes.
And remember:
Jehovah delights in rewarding his people
for their faithfulness
and for their generosity.
So with the great tribulation
fast approaching,
have no doubt that Jehovah
will soon richly reward you
as we all give generously
of our time and our effort
to love our amazing God, Jehovah,
and to make disciples!
As you were able to see,
Part 1 is of historical proportions
and most exciting!
Part 2 will be available
on jw.org in January.
Our postcard for this month is from Albania,
a small country on the Adriatic Sea.
For much of its tumultuous past,
foreign powers have come and gone,
each bringing with it
a different mix of peoples,
cultures, and religions.
Albania is a beautiful land,
scattered with lakes
and crisscrossed by rivers.
Idyllic beaches dot the coastline,
such as the aptly named Aquarium Beach,
a beautiful spot for snorkeling.
The Karavasta Lagoon,
the largest in the country,
is the home
of the Dalmatian pelican,
the largest of its kind,
measuring up to 1.8 meters (6 ft) long.
In Romans chapter 15,
the apostle Paul reported
that he and his companions
had “thoroughly preached the good news.”
They had traveled “as far as Illyricum,”
a Roman province
that included part of what is today Albania.
It is likely that some in the region
became Christians at that time,
for secular history reports that Christianity
took root in Albania in the first century.
In the 1920’s,
some Albanians learned Bible truth
while living in the United States.
After getting baptized,
some returned to Albania,
eager to share these precious truths
with family and friends.
In 1928,
Lazar Nasson and Petro Stavro
traveled from the United States
back to Albania
to show the “Photo-Drama of Creation.”
Many responded,
and despite political turmoil,
economic reversal
and, at times, vigorous opposition,
the number of Kingdom proclaimers
has grown steadily.
Today, there are more than 5,400 publishers
serving in 89 congregations.
From Tirana, the capital,
the branch office
cares for the work in Albania
and the 228 publishers
in its northeast neighbor, Kosovo.
Let’s visit the city of Lushnjë,
located in west-central Albania.
The Lushnjë Veriu Congregation
preaches in a territory
that covers around one third of the city
as well as 21 villages in the Myzeqe Valley.
The preaching work in the villages
yields good results,
and meeting attendance
regularly averages over 130 percent.
They are happy to host
a Romany-language group.
Though some publishers
live in villages outside the city,
they are happy
to attend the meetings in person,
some walking one hour
from their home to the Kingdom Hall.
The 77 publishers
of the Lushnjë Veriu Congregation
send you
their Christian affection and greetings!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.